---
layout: post
title: Grasp 0.2.0 released!
category: release
base_url: ../../../../..
---

Grasp 0.2.0 has been released!

Grasp is a command line utility that allows you to search and replace your JavaScript code - but unlike programs such as `grep` or `sed` it searches the structure behind your code (the abstract syntax tree), rather than simply the text you've written - this allows you to:

- Search your code with unparalleled power
- Quickly and easily refactor your code
- Implement basic macros in a single line

This version fixes some bugs and adds new features which really make it easy to refactor your code using Grasp.

Install with `npm install -g grasp` (or see [install page]({{ page.base_url }}/docs/install)).

Update with `npm update -g grasp`.

I'm also happy to announce that a Sublime Text plugin has been developed for Grasp: [sublime-grasp](https://github.com/joneshf/sublime-grasp) by [joneshf](https://github.com/joneshf). This has been added to the new [tools]({{ page.base_url }}/tools) section of the site. To any vi, Emacs, or other text editor/IDE plugin developers: create a plugin for Grasp and be featured in the next release post and in the tools section!

Check out the [main site]({{ page.base_url }}), the [demo]({{ page.base_url }}#demo), the [quick start guide]({{ page.base_url }}/quick-start), and the [documentation]({{ page.base_url }}/docs)!

Questions? Comments? Join `#graspjs` on Freenode and talk to `gkz` or post an issue in the [GitHub issues section](https://github.com/gkz/grasp/issues).

### Changes

- Added support for named wildcards in [equery]({{ page.base_url}}/docs/equery), both single and array types - `$name` and `_$name`
- Added [filters]({{ page.base_url }}/docs/replace#filters) feature for use during replacement
- Added an `input` option to `grasp` when used [as a library]({{ page.base_url }}/docs/lib) - this allows you to specify the input you want to search/replace as a string
- Added two helper functions, `grasp.search` and `grasp.replace`, when using [Grasp as a library]({{ page.base_url }}/docs/lib)
- Allowed searching for expression statements in [equery]({{ page.base_url}}/docs/equery) when explicitly using a semicolon `;`
- Created an object varient of each of the wildcards in equery - eg. `_:_`, `$:name`, `_:$`, `_:$name`
- Removed `@attribute` squery syntax, simply use `*.attribute` instead
- Fixed issue #4 - [Bug when replacing overlapping matches](https://github.com/gkz/grasp/issues/4)
- Fixed issue #5 - [First level of quotes in replacements ignored](https://github.com/gkz/grasp/issues/5)
- Fixed issue #6 - [Absolute paths are not supported on the command line](https://github.com/gkz/grasp/issues/6)
- Fixed an issue with getting the raw value of operators

### Migrating from 0.1.0
- Change any use of the squery `@attribute` to `*.attribute`. Eg. `@left` should become `*.left`.
- Change any equery bitwise OR (`|`) searches to not be spaced, so they are not confused with the new filter syntax. Eg. `x | y` should become `x|y`.
