---
layout: post
title: Grasp 0.4.0 released with ES6 support!
base_url: ../../../../..
---

### ES6 support!

Grasp 0.4.0 has been released with ES6 support!

Grasp is a command line utility that allows you to search and replace your JavaScript code - but unlike programs such as `grep` or `sed` it searches the structure behind your code (the abstract syntax tree), rather than simply the text you've written.

Grasp now uses the latest version of the Acorn parser, and supports ES6/ES2015 code.

For example, you can quickly find all the import sources in your app, you could use:

```
$ grasp 'import-dec.source' file.js
```

If file.js was

    import * as x from 'lib';
    import {y, z} from 'foo';
    ...

You would get:

<pre class="term">
<span class="yellow">$</span> grasp 'import-dec.source' file.js
<span class="green">1</span><span class="cyan">:</span>import * as x from <span class="red bold">'lib'</span>;
<span class="green">2</span><span class="cyan">:</span>import {y, z} from <span class="red bold">'foo'</span>;
</pre>

For all the different possiblities, check out the [JavaScript syntax documentation]({{ page.base_url }}/docs/syntax-js).

### Parser Options

You can also supply your own parser and parser options if you wish using the `--parser` option. Its default value is `(acorn, {locations: true, ecmaVersion: 6, sourceType: 'module', allowHashBang: true})` see [the options documentation]({{ page.base_url}}/docs/options/#parser) for more information. Using this option you could, for example, attempt to use a parser supporting JSX.

### Install/Update

Install with `npm install -g grasp` (or see [install page]({{ page.base_url }}/docs/install)).

Update with `npm update -g grasp`.

### More

Check out the [main site]({{ page.base_url }}), the [demo]({{ page.base_url }}#demo), the [quick start guide]({{ page.base_url }}/quick-start), and the [documentation]({{ page.base_url }}/docs)!

Questions? Comments? Post an issue in the [GitHub issues section](https://github.com/gkz/grasp/issues).
